beautiful like the dashboards on your
car's bill right thank you and I just
heard you're gonna be having two more mm
more jobs right down the road for the
Bronco which is a big winner that's
great
fantastic job thank you very much go
thank you thank you that's right down
the road it's an honor to have bill with
us thank you very much and I'm thrilled
to be back in Michigan we've done a lot
of work in Michigan a lot of plants are
opening a lot of plants stopped we
stopped them from closing and we kept
your workers here in Michigan and in the
United States different places as you
know all over the United States but it's
an honor to do it's one of the reasons
I'm standing here in fact years ago I
was honored long before I ever thought
of the presidential situation I was
honored in Michigan and I said how come
you're losing so much of your car
business to Mexico and other places and
I asked that question very innocently
was probably 10 years ago the man of the
year they named me Man of the Year in
Michigan and I said what's going on in
Michigan and we've stopped it and thanks
to a lot of great companies like Ford a
lot of things are happening here and
it's why I'm so honored when when bill
mentioned the plant that you're going to
be doing 2000 and it's also a great
success the Bronco so that's really
really big news thank you very much
thank you
and I'm honored to stand on a factory
floor operated by the incredible workers
of Ford Motor Company you really are
tremendously talented people I know it
I'm not sure everybody in the world
knows it but a lot of people do and
they're all going to know it after this
speech but you are really talented great
people thank you very much for doing a
great job we know what it takes few
people have that ability few in our
nation's war against the invisible enemy
the hard-working Patriots here today
answered the call to serve you prove
that the American worker is built
forward and you are built Ford Tough a
great expression you still use that
expression I think bill right that's a
great expression and you're let's see
can I use it for maybe my self built
Trump tough I don't know they may say
that's the take-off that's no good you
can't do that and you've made really
America proud and you've made Ford proud
and America is very proud of Ford right
here at the Ross advil component plant
you're building a great medical arsenal
to defeat the virus and cement America's
place as the leading manufacturer and
exporter of ventilators anywhere in the
world we're now getting calls from other
countries many other countries both
friend and foe believe it or not we get
calls from foe and we want to help them
out too and we're making thousands and
thousands of ventilators and I think we
really sort of started right over here
we got a call very early on from Bill in
the group and this is incredible what's
happened and what you've done with your
help not a single American who has
needed a ventilator has been denied a
ventilator not one and as you remember
we took over empty cupboards the
cupboards were bare and we got into the
business of ventilators and testing and
all of these other things now we've done
14 million tests the second country is
at 3 million and less than 3 million
Germany South Korea and they've done a
good job but we're at 14 million tests
and the tests are the best of all but on
behalf of our entire nation I want to
say thank you very much thank you very
much for doing a great
driven by the love and sweat and
devotion of everyone here today we're
saving lives we're forging ahead and as
of this week the beating heart of the
American auto industry is back open for
business that started right away didn't
it starts right now and you have all
those supply chains coming in they're
going to come through because if they
don't come through just build a product
right here okay because you know that
can happen too but we heard that it's a
big story that we're starting with the
cars now and it's going to be a big
success in addition to many wonderful
UAW workers were joined by secretary ben
Carson who's done a fantastic job
where's Ben Ben is here Thank You Ben
where is he oh there he is hi Ben
Thank You Ben thank you
and Amanda's done a fantastic job for
Ford well I'll ask Bill about this later
I'll just find out I want to make sure
for myself but I know based on results I
know CEO Jim Hackett Jim thank you very
much the word is yes Jim the word is
great job great your plant manager
Angela weathers Angela thank you very
much that's a big job that's a big job
you enjoy it yeah great job fantastic
it's a big big deal and GE healthcare US
and Canada president Everett Cunningham
Thank You Everett Thank You Everett
before going further let us send our
love to all of the families that have
been displaced by the flooding near
Midland I spoke to your governor this
morning and we've sent some tremendously
talented people out here we have FEMA
and we have the Army Corps of Engineers
and they can do things that frankly
nobody else can do the Army Corps of
Engineers what they do so they're very
good at rebuilding dams that are busted
or blown up or for whatever reason bad
things happen but Americans are praying
for Central Michigan and we're going to
take care of your problem the governor
and I had a great conversation this
morning and at the appropriate time I'll
go and see the area that we'll be fixing
we're going to help you out we signed a
emergency declaration very quickly very
very quickly and we're going to help you
out very quickly also in recent months
this state and this country have faced
great challenges here in the Detroit
area you were hit hard by the virus very
very hard in this area as one people we
hold in our hearts the precious memory
of every person that we have lost and
we've lost too many one as too many we
lost too many it came in from China and
it should have been stopped in China
they didn't stop it they should have
stopped it and there's one grateful
nation we proclaim god bless our health
care workers they've done an incredible
job they're like warriors they're like
warriors I want to thank all of the
nurses and doctors because of the virus
Ford was forced to stop automobile
production for the first time since
World War two that's something but you
did not despair your company leadership
called up the White House and asked the
most American of all questions how can
we help true I said that's nice that's
very nice every one of the workers in
this project volunteered to take part in
the greatest industrialization and
mobilization project that our society
has done the American people have done
in our lifetimes the company founded by
a man named Henry Ford good bloodlines
quit bloodlines if you believe in that
stuff get good blood they teamed up with
the company founded by Thomas Edison
that's General Electric that's good
stuff that's good stuff and you put it
all together then they're all looking
down right now and there'd be very proud
at what they see you began the
production of 50,000 life-saving
ventilators a number that if you go back
just two months I would say most people
would say it would be impossible to
believe the media's back there and they
would have said a couple of months ago
the creation of that many mint
ventilators would have been not a
possible thing every single one of these
ventilators is made in the USA with
American Heart American hands an
American pride just as your
great-grandparents produced more than
one Model T every minute just as your
grandmother's and grandfathers produced
a beef b-24 you did the b-24 bomber so
pictures in the back that was quite a
weapon it was quite an incredible weapon
b-24 bomber and just as a Ford f150
normally drives off the line every 52
seconds you quickly mastered this
complex new machine a ventilators are
very complicated
delicate big expensive machine
1 month-ago 4 it had never built a
single ventilator and now you're a world
leader it's a bed you adopted the
designs of a company that was building
just 10 a week but a very high quality
ventilator and very soon you'll be
producing one new ventilator every
single minute it's an absolute amazing
achievement and you're really helping
now beyond the country helping other
countries throughout the world we have
188 countries that are fighting this
terrible enemy and ventilators are
something it could never you can do
cotton swabs you can do all of the
things you can even do testing but
ventilators are a whole different lot
it's very tough great job thanks to you
we'll stockpile over 100,000 new
ventilators in the next few months and
have offered over 14 thousand to friends
and allies all around the world and they
desperately need them just this week I
spoke to five countries they called me
is it possible to get ventilators to
them and I'm sending them over I want to
recognize just a few of the exceptional
Americans who made this historic feat
possible Keith pastarino is an
electrician here in Roseville Keith
please tell us what you've done how you
like it come on up let's see Keith oh
look at case
[Applause]
Thank You kid love to grab him and shake
his him but I guess we can't do that guy
well on behalf of Ford and the UAW
welcome mr. president
Keith pasterino I'm an electrician when
I first heard the news that my plant was
going to be building ventilators it only
took me a minute to get a hold of my UAW
and then I decided that this was my
opportunity to serve my country so on
the first day as a volunteer
we went full speed seven days a week 12
hours a shift I would go home sore
bruised had blisters was bleeding had
trouble sleeping
just just because of the pains of that
day but I kept coming back because this
is a great nation and I couldn't say
that I'd be more proud of my co-workers
for their efforts and their sacrifices
to build these fine Ford ventilators
respirators face masks and face shields
thank you this has been a absolute honor
and a blessing and god bless you sir
thank you very much
[Applause]
great job great people we're also joined
by Gary Brabant a quality technician
Gary come on up Gary
[Applause]
Thanks
good afternoon Thank You President Trump
for the honor to tell my story my name
is Gary Brandt and I'm a fourth
generation Ford Motor Company employee
my grandfather's worked for Ford Motor
Company during World War two and my
father retired from Rosslyn Ville after
41 years I always knew growing up I
wanted to work for Ford I am very very
proud of the part of a part of the
ventilator project and the amazing job
done by Ford in the UAW team here I had
anxiety when I received the call to
volunteer I didn't want to get sick or
take it home to my family
however upon arriving here on the first
day I felt safe due to the new policies
and procedures put forth by our UAW
health and safety team it's a great
feeling to know everything we are doing
here and each assembly we make is saving
somebody's life Thank You mr. president
and god bless america
thank you very much thank you Gary Thank
You Gary very much with us as well as
Adrienne Price who has helped lead this
effort as one of Ford's top engineers
highly respected come on up please hey
drew
[Applause]
thank you really thank you for the
opportunity to represent my friends and
colleagues who've been involved in
project Apollo I'm honored to be part of
a team that over the last few weeks has
been able to produce more than 17
million of these face shields 13 million
surgical masks 32,000 pressurized air
purifying respirators and here at the
Ross infest Ross anvil facility produce
a ventilator every 60 seconds these
feats are a testament to the skills and
capabilities of the men and women at
Ford Motor Company and our UAW and other
partners who have come together to do
what we could do to support the battle
against Colgan 19 Ford Motor Company and
its employees are always prepared to
step up and do the right thing to
support those in need but most
particularly in times of significant
national crisis
I believe these acts are part of the DNA
of our company and are inspired by both
forward family and our continuing
history of service personally I'm proud
to be playing a part in supporting the
brave men and women who are on the front
line every day putting themselves at
risk to help others and as I stand here
today surrounded by these awesome
american-made cars SUVs and beautiful
trucks I'm so pleased that our
facilities and dealerships are safely in
operation and serving the needs of our
current and maybe future Ford and
Lincoln customers Thank You mr.
president
I brought plenty of them I brought
plenty of them thank you Andrew
yeah I have a lot of those Lincoln's
that's great thank you very much
that Lobel pandemic has proven once and
for all that to be a strong nation
America must be a manufacturing nation
we were bringing it back 600,000 jobs
previous administration said
manufacturing we're not doing that
it's gotten from this country they were
wrong 600,000 jobs until we had it turn
it off and now we're gonna turn it back
on like never before you see numbers
that you didn't even see the last time
we're gonna rebuild it quickly it's
gonna happen very quickly we're already
seeing indications of that Larry Kudlow
gave some numbers that were really
inspiring this morning based on what
we're hearing and seeing true national
independence requires economic
independence from day one I've been
fighting to bring back our jobs from
China and many other countries today I'm
declaring a simple but vital national
goal the United States will be the
world's premier pharmacy drug store and
medical manufacturer bringing our
medicines back
[Applause]
and many other things too we must
produce critical equipment supplies
pharmaceuticals technologies for
ourselves we cannot rely on foreign
nations to take care of us especially in
times of difficulty in previous decades
politicians shipped away our jobs
outsourced to our supply chains and
offshore our industries they send them
abroad and we're bringing them back and
we've been doing that long before this
crisis bringing them back that's why we
have so many plants being built all over
the United States that make a beautiful
product call cars bringing them back you
see it
I told Prime Minister Abbey of Japan
she's got a Shinzo you got to get it
back got a better we have many Japanese
companies now building car companies
here since you got to bring them back
we just had deficits with all of these
countries for years and years and years
they were ripping us left and right we
had no idea we had no leader that
understood what the hell was happening
but now you do I said got to bring him
back we made a great deal with South
Korea we made a great deal Japan with 40
billion dollars Japan is putting into
the United States not to mention all of
the plants that they're building the
South Korea it was a terrible deal and
we made it good Hillary Clinton actually
made that deal she said it's going to
produce 250,000 jobs and she was right
it produced 250,000 jobs for South Korea
not for us wasn't too good was it but we
are bringing it all back to our country
and it started long before this happened
and maybe that's one of the reasons this
happened maybe people weren't so
thrilled with what was going on but we
had the greatest year in the history of
our country and have it again very soon
in this administration we know that it
matters where someone and something
where someone works on something or
where something is made as we've seen
today companies like you a great Ford
and workers like you are a national
treasure I consider Ford to be a
national treasure I consider you to be a
national
treasure the talent because that talent
and culture and commitment to winning
are irreplaceable your patriotism cannot
be outsourced your 117 years of
incredible manufacturing heritage cannot
be replicated anywhere else in the world
the talent I see the talent I know what
talent is I understand your world and I
understand your business that's why in
my administration we live by two simple
rules by American and hire American
[Applause]
and we have another rule that you may
have heard on occasion it's called
America first we didn't have America
first we had America last under previous
presidents they were more concerned with
the world than they were concerned with
their own country my first week in
office I withdrew from the job wrecking
trans-pacific partnership which would
have destroyed the auto industry I don't
know I didn't ever ask you about that
bill I mean I think you agree oh you do
would you please stand up and just not
that you agree that's your industry bill
would have been destroyed had that deal
gone through and not only yours by the
way but other countries would have been
very happy so I don't know I don't know
how the hell these unions aren't
endorsing Trump instead of the standard
Democrat a Democrat that doesn't even
know where he is we renegotiated the
catastrophic deal with South Korea to
preserve the protective tariff when
foreign made pickup truck trucks you
know the chicken tax they call it right
you know what the chicken tax is most
profitable thing you have you know why
because of the chicken tax that was
expiring a year ago and I got it
extended because of that tax it's one of
the most profitable products you live
for that product right I kept my promise
to replace the NAFTA disaster with a
brand-new US MCA which is a fantastic
deal for a country tough new
requirements under the US MCA ensure
more cars to be built in American plants
by American labor and even labor
endorsed it but you know the big thing
is you'll lose it all you Caron does you
weren't going to have a car industry
left now people aren't going to be
moving back to Mexico they're not going
to be moving back and you're gonna have
it the other way at the same time we
preserve our relationship Mexico's
actually been very nice our border is
the strongest it's ever been
we're up to over 200 miles of brand-new
beautiful border wall and that 200 miles
is pristine nobody comes through this is
a serious wall it's a serious wall and
it's incredible what we've done there
too we had the best among
best months we've ever had and now when
somebody comes across we bring them back
we don't go through five years of
litigation in the other days or the
older days not so long ago if they
stepped a foot into our country they
ended up you had to be Perry Mason you
end up in a court case and it took years
you'd release him into the country by
law and then you say come back in five
years for your trial and only the very
stupid people came back about two
percent they didn't come back why should
they come back they were released into
our country we don't do that we don't do
that and we want people coming into our
country but we want them to come in
through merit and we want them to come
in Legally it's very important I'll
continue to fight for us Auto Workers as
we rebuild our economic strength or
strategy for a phased and responsible
reopening protects those lives those
American lives those high risk American
lives from the virus while allowing
those of laura's such as young healthy
people where they just have a much much
lower risk we've learned a lot you're a
certain age you have a problem with
diabetes or you have a problem with your
heart you're a prime suspect for this
horrible disease it's a it's a terrible
thing so we've learned that young people
do very well very well incredibly well
older people especially older people
that have problems they don't do well at
all
so we have to protect those people and
we want to get everybody now safely back
to work then we're going to do that I
spoke today about our churches our
churches are closed and I said CTC had a
great conversation I said how people
want to go back to church on Sundays and
our churches want to take care of their
parishioners they're people that go to
worship and you're gonna see something
come out very soon about opening up our
churches a permanent lockdown is not a
strategy for a healthy state or a
healthy country our country wasn't meant
to be shut down
we did the right thing but now it's time
to open it up and never-ending lockdown
would invite any public health calamity
to protect the health of our people we
must have a functioning economy and as I
said and I'll say it a hundred times
we're gonna have an incredible year next
year right at the beginning even our
fourth quarter is going to be very good
there's a tremendous pent up demand and
that includes the cars
Americans who need and want to return to
work should not be vilified they should
be supported
unlike many politicians and journalists
for those who aren't a living with their
own two hands working remotely is just
not an option you don't have the option
of doing that our plan emphasizes safety
and protection for returning employees I
want to commend Ford along with General
Motors General Electric Fiat Chrysler
and so many other companies a lot of
them in this area for blazing a trail to
safely restart America's economic
engines you are demonstrating that we
can open our country while taking
precautions like social distancing daily
medical screenings strict hygiene you
can get tremendous numbers of very quick
temperature checks who ever heard they
aim a camera right there in two seconds
later they tell you your temperature
more accurately than the old days where
you put it under your tongue for two and
a half minutes this is a little better
but you get temperature checks and I
want to thank you all for leading
America back to work you look at states
like Florida Georgia and many others
where the numbers have actually gone
down they're open but their numbers are
going down and very substantially down
with your help in our policies this
country is poised for an epic comeback
this is going to be an incredible
comeback watch it's already happening
within the next year we are going to be
exceeding any expectation and I've had a
good gut feeling about a lot of things
including running for president I said I
think I could win and I guess I was
right
everyone here today and by the way I
think we're going to do better the
second time and it's very important that
we win the second time or everything
that we've done including manufacturing
jobs all this it's going to be not in a
very good position everyone here today
is the heir to a majestic a noble
tradition you walk in the footsteps of
those who built the Motor City in the
1920s and 30s who stocked the arsenal of
democracy in the 1940s and who set the
standard for automotive safety and style
in the 1950s and 60s and Beyond and even
today bill was showing me some of those
cars it's incredible I want to buy one
then I heard the price I said forget I
said I'll use one occasion right but
what a car that is that what a car our
friends and allies marveled at these
triumphs of American industry and our
enemies learned that nothing can stop
the strength and power and grit of the
American worker nothing just like
generations of Michigan manufacturers
before you each of you is for America in
its time of need you love your country
you love your country so much now you
have a critical role to play in forging
a new legacy of American greatness that
will inspire and endure for generations
to come
it's a very important time in our
country's history in our country's life
because of you the Ford name will
forever stand as a symbol of American
excellence innovation quality and
craftsmanship and because of you America
will be strong and healthy and
prosperous and free for many many
decades to come
I want to say very powerfully very
strongly god bless you all god bless
america I'm proud to be here I'm proud
to be with Ford bill thank you very much
everyone thank you very much we'll be
back we'll see you a lot good luck John
James thank you for being here we're
gonna have a great Senator John James
thank you all very much thanks